Deep Survival: Who Lives, Who Dies, and Why
by

Takeaways
Learn basic survival skills

Perceive, believe, then act

STOP - Stop, think, observe, plan(, act)

Have a plan and backup plan, but be ready to let them go

Survival is adaptation and adaptation is change based on a true reading of the environment

Avoid impulsive behavior; don't hurry - find emotional balance and control

Know your stuff - develop a deep knowledge of the world around you.

Get the information - The same accidents happen over and over, talk to rangers, lifeguards, local auth to find out about them.

Commune with the Dead - Read accident reports in your chosen field of recreation

Be humble - gain experience while retaining a beginner's state of mind

When in doubt, bail out. - Better to bail out and try again, than wind up dead and not get another chance.

Positive Mental Attitude - Don't self-pity, no why me?
Follow stoic philosophy of survival as a way of life
A course of familiarization with pain

What survivors do:
1. Perceive, believe (look, see, believe) -  notice details, humor, beauty - recognize, acknowledge, accept the situation
Denial, anger, bargaining, depression, acceptance are natural stages to work through

2. Stay calm (use humor, use fear to focus) - use fear as motivation, keep calm.

3. Think/analyze/plan (get organized; set up small, manageable tasks) - organize, routines, discipline - obey the rational voice

4. Take correct, decisive action (be bold and cautious while carrying out tasks) - thought->action, big jobs->small tasks

5. Celebrate your successes (take joy in completing tasks) - creates motivation, avoids helplessness, provides relief from stress

6. Count your blessings (be grateful--you're alive)

7. Play (sing, play mind games, recite poetry, count anything, do mathematical problems in your head)

8. See the beauty (remember: it's a vision quest). Relieves stress, creates motivation

9. Believe that you will succeed (develop a deep conviction that you'll live). Determination is key

10. Surrender (let go of your fear of dying; "put away the pain")

11. Do whatever is necessary (be determined; have the will and the skill) - know abilities, don't over-or underestimate them

12. Never give up (let nothing break your spirit). There is always one more thing that you can do. Don't get frustrated
      or discouraged by setbacks. Accept the environment - Escape into the world of memories

Essential tools of adventure: planning, caution, training, learning good decision-making skills

