Drive
The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us
Daniel H. Pink

Carrots and Sticks: The Seven Deadly Flaws
1. They can extinguish intrinsic motivation.
2. They can diminish performance.
3. They can crush creativity.
4. They can crowd out good behavior.
5. They can encourage cheating, shortcuts, and unethical behavior.
6. They can become addictive.
7. They can foster short-term thinking.

Type I
Instinsically motivated
Autonomy over
  Task, Time, Technique, and Team

Mastery
Mastery is a Mindset
Mastery is a Pain
Mastery is an Asymptote

Purpose

Type I Toolkit
Give Yourself a "Flow Test"
- Set 40 reminders a week at random times on phone, record
  what you are doing, how you're feeling, and whether you 
  are in flow

First Ask a Big Question
- What's your sentence?

Then Keep Asking a Small Question
- Was I a little better today than yesterday?

Take a Sagemeister
- Take a one year sabbatical every seven years

Get Unstuck By Going Oblique
- 100 cards created by Brian Eno and Peter Schmidt
  also http://twitter.com/oblique_chirps

Just Say No--With a List
- Make a "to don't" list, things to not do

Move Five Steps Closer to Mastery
Deliberate Practice
- One objective: improve performance by setting new goals
  and straining yourself to reach a bit higher each time.
- Repeat, repeat, repeat.
- Seek constant, critical feedback.
- Focus ruthlessly on where you need help.
- Prepare for the process to be mentally and physically exhausting.

Take a Page from Webber and a Card From Your Pocket
- 3x5 card, one side: What gets you up in the morning?
  other side: What keeps you up at night?
  Pare each down to one sentence, if you don't like either answer,
  what are you going to do about it?

Create Your Own Motivational Poster


Type I for Organizations: Thirteen Ways to Improve 
  Your Company, Office, or Group

Carve out Time for Noncommissioned Work: The Big Idea
- 20 Percent Time with Training Wheels
- Turn your next off-site into a Fedex day
- Conduct an Autonomy Audit

Irrigate the Feedback Desert: DIY Performance Reviews
- Monthly self-review
  - Set both smaller and larger goals
  - Make sure you understand how every aspect of your 
    work relates to the larger purpose.
  - Be brutally honest.
- Peer "Now That" Rewards
  - $50 bonus that any employee can reward any other employee.

Take Three Steps Toward Giving Up Control
1. Involve people in goal-setting.
2. Use noncontrolling language.
3. Hold office hours.

Play "Whose Purpose Is It Anyway?"
- Pass around cards and everyone answers:"What is our
  company's purpose?"

Use Reich's Pronoun Test
Listen to whether coworkers refer to company as we or they.

Design for the 85 Percent

Promote Goldilocks for Groups
- Begin with a Diverse Group
- Make your group a "no competition" zone
- Try a little task-shifting
- Animate with purpose, don't motivate with rewards.

Get Agile
- Build Projects around motivated individuals.
- Simplicity

Persuade Your Boss By Starting Small (And Subversive)
1. Ask the right question. "Is there one thing I can do 
  tomorrow in my own domain to make things a little better?"
2. Be strategically subversive. Bend the rules or do things
   a little differently. If it works, tell people, and if not,
   keep it to yourself.
3. Emphasize results.


The Zen of Compassion: Paying People The Type I Way
1. Ensure Internal and External Fairness
2. Pay More than Average
3. If you use performance metrics, make them wide-ranging,
   relevamt, and hard to game.

Type I for Parents and Educators: Ten Ideas for Helping 
  Out Our Kids

Apply the Three-Part Type I Test for Homework
1. Am I offering students autonomy over how and when 
  to do this work?
2. Does this assignment promote mastery by offering 
  a novel, engaging task?
3. Do my students understand the purpose of this assignment?

Have a Fedex Day
- Set aside an entire day to do a project.

Try DIY Report Cards
- At beginning of semester, ask students to list their 
top learning goal. At the end of the semester, ask them 
to create their own report card. Where did they succeed/fail?
What more do they need to learn?

Give Your Kids an Allowance and Some Chores--But Don't 
Combine Them

Offer Praise...The Right Way
Praise effort and strategy, not intelligence.
Make praise specific.
Praise in private.
Offer praise when there's a good reason for it.

Help Kids See the Big Picture
Why am I learning this? How is it relevant to the world
I live in now?

Pay Teachers More Intelligently

Check out these 5 Type I Schools
Big Picture Learning
Sudbury Valley School
The Tinkering School
Puget Sound Community School
Montessori Schools

Take a Class from the Unschoolers
The Unschooling Handbook
The Teenage Liberation Handbook
Home Education Magazine

Turn Students into Teachers

Type I Reading List

Finite and Infinite Games: A Vision of Life
 as Play and Possibility by James P. Carse

Talent is Overrated: What Really Separates World-Class 
 Performers from Everybody Else by Geoff Colvin

Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience
  by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi

Why We Do What We Do: Understanding Self-Motivation
 by Edwards Deci 

Mindset: The New Psychology of Success
  by Carol Dweck

Then We Came to the End by Joshua Ferriss

Good Work: When Excellence and Ethics Meet
by Howard Gardner

Outliers: The Story or Success
by Malcolm Gladwell

Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln
by Doris Kearns Goodwin

The Amateurs: The Story of Four Young Men and Their
Quest for and Olympic Gold Medal
by David Halberstam

Punished by Rewards: The Trouble with Gold Stars,
Incentive Plans, A's, Praise, and Other Bribes 
by Alfie Kohn

Once a Runner by John L. Parker, Jr.

The War of Art: Break Through the Blocks and Win
Your Inner Creative Battles
by Steven Pressfield

Maverick: The Success Story Behind the World's 
Most Unusual Workplace
by Ricardo Semler

The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice of the 
Learning Organization
by Peter M. Senge

Listen to the Gurus: Seven Business Thinkers Who Get It
Douglas Mcgregor - The Human Side of Enterprise
Peter Drucker - The Daily Drucker
W.Edward Deming 
Frederick Herzberg - One More Time: How Do You 
Motivate Employees? - Harvard Business Review
Jim Collins - 
Cali Ressler and Jody Thompson
Gary Hamel - Competing for the Future
  The Future of Management

The Type I Fitness Plan: Four Tips for Getting(and Staying)
  Motivated to Exercise
1. Set your own goals
2. Ditch the Treadmill
3. Keep Mastery in Mind
4. Reward yourself the right way.

Chapter-By-Chapter Summary
Introduction: The Puzzling Puzzles of Harry Harlow and Edward Deci
Human beings have a biological drive that includes hunger, thirst, and sex.
We also have another long-recognized drive: to respond to rewards and 
punishments in our environments. But in the middle of the twentieth centur, 
a few scientists began discovering that humans also have a thrid drive--
what some call "intrinsic motivation." For several decades, behavioral
scientists have benn figurin out the dynamics and explaining the power of
our third drive. Alas, business hasn't caught up to this new understanding.
If we want to strengthen our companies, elevate our lives, and improve
the world, we need to close the gap between what science knows and what
business does.

Part One. A New Operating System
Chapter 1. The Rise and Fall of Motivation 2.0
Societies, like computers, have operating systems--a set of mostly invisible
instructions and protocols on which everything runs. The first human operating
system--call it Motivation 1.0--was all about survival. Its successor, 
Motivation 2.0, was built around external rewards and punishments. That worked
fine for routine twentieth-century tasks. But in the twenty-first century, 
Motivation 2.0 is proving incompatible with how we organize what we do, how
we think about what we do, and how we do what we do. We need an upgrade.

Chapter 2. Seven Reasons Carrots and Sticks (Often) Don't Work...
When carrots and sticks encounter our third drive, strange things begin to 
happen. Traditional "if-then" rewards can give us less of what we want: 
They can extinguish intrinsic motivation, diminish performance, crush
creativity, and crowd out good behavior. They can also give us more of what 
we don't want: They can encourage unethical behavior, create addictions, and
foster short-term thinking. These are the bugs in our current operating 
system.

Chapter 2a....and the Special Circumstances When They Do
Carrots and sticks aren't all bad. They can be effective for rule-based routine
tasks--because there's little intrinsic motivation to undermine and not much
creativity to crush. And they can be more effective still if those giving
such rewards offer a rationale for why the task is necessary, acknowledge that
it's boring, and allow people autonomy over how they complete it. For 
nonroutine conceptual task, rewards are more perilous--particularly those of
the "if-then" variety. But "now that" rewards--noncontingent rewards given
after a task is complete--can sometimes be okay for more creative, right-brain
work, especially if they provide useful information about performance.

Chapter 3. Type I and Type X
Motivation 2.0 depended on and fostered Type X behavior--behavior fueled more
by extrinsic desires than intrinsic ones and concerned less with the inherent
satisfaction of an activity and more with the external rewards to whic the 
activity leads. Motivation 3.0, the upgrade that's necessary for the smooth
functioning of twenty-first century business, depends on and fosters Type I
behavior. Type I behavior concerns itself less with the external rewards an
activity brings and more with the inherent satisfaction of the activity itself.
For professional success and personal fulfillment, we need to move ourselves
and our colleagues from Type X to Type I. The good news is that Type I's are 
made, not born--and Type I behavior leads to stronger performance, greater 
health, and higher overall well-being.

Part Two. The Three Elements
Chapter 4. Autonomy
Our "default setting" is to be autonomous and self-directed. Unfortunately, 
circumstances--including outdated notions of "management"--often conspire
to change that default setting and turn us from Type I to Type X. To encourage
Type I behavior, and the high performance it enables, the first requirement
is autonomy. People need autonomy over task (what they do), time (when they do
it), team (who they do it with), and technique (how they do it). Organizations
that have found inventive, sometimes radical, ways to boost autonomy are 
outperforming their competitors.

Chapter 5. Master
While Motivation 2.0 required compliance, Motivation 3.0 demands engagement.
Only engagement can produce mastery--becoming better at something that matters.
And the pursuit of mastery, an important but often dormant part of our third
drive, has become essential to making one's way in the economy. Indeed, making 
progress in one's work turns out to be the single most motivating aspect of
many jobs. Mastery begins with "flow"--optimal experiences when the challenges
we face are exquisitely matched to our abilities. Smart workplaces therefore
supplement day-to-day activities with "Goldilocks taks"--not too hard and 
not too easy. But mastery also abides by three peculiar rules. Mastery is a 
mindset: It requires the capacity to see your abilities not as finite, but
as infinitely improvable. Mastery is a pain: It demands effort, grit, and 
deliberate practice. And mastery is an asymptote: It's impossible to fully
realize, which makes it simultaneously frustrating and alluring.

Chapter 6. Purpose
Humans, by their nature, seek purpose--to make a contribution and to be part
of a cause greater and more enduring than themselves. But traditional businesses
have long considered purpose ornamental--a perfectly nice accessory, so long 
as it didn't get in the way of the important things. But that's changing--
thanks in part to the rising tide of aging baby boomers reckoning with their 
own mortality. In Motivation 3.0, purpose maximization is taking its place
alongside profit maximization as an aspiration and a guiding principle. Within
organizations, this new "purpose motive" is expressing itself in three ways:
in goals that use profit to reach purpose; in words that emphasize more than
self-interest; and in policies that allow people to pursue purpose on their
own terms. This move to accompany profit maximization with purpose maximization
has the potential to rejuvenate our businesses and remake our world.



