Good to Great
Why Some Companies Make the Leap...
and Others Don't
by Jim Collins
Comparison of 11 companies that went from earnings equal to the market
average for 15 years to 3x market average for the next 15 years with
11 similar companies and 6 control companies.

Level 5 Hierarchy
Level 5 - Level 5 Executive
  Build enduring greatness through a paradoxical blend of personal
  humility and professional will
Level 4 - Effective Leader
  Catalyzes commitment to and vigorous pursuit of a clear and 
  compelling vision, stimulating higher performance standards.
Level 3 - Competent Manager
  Organizes people and resources toward the effective and efficient 
  pursuit of predetermined objectives
Level 2 - Contributing Team Member
  Contributes individual capabilities to the achievement of group
  objectives and works effectively with others in a group setting.
Level 1 - Highly Capable Individual
  Makes productive contributions through talent, knowledge, skills, 
  and good work habits.

Level 5 leaders channel their ego away from themselves and into the
  larger goal of building a great company. It's not that Level 5 leaders
  have no ego or self-interest. Indeed, they are incredibly ambitious--
  but thir ambition is first and foremost for the institution, not themselves.

Every good-to-great company had Level 5 leadership during the pivotal
  transition years.

"Level 5" refers to a five-level hierarchy of executive capabilities,
with Level 5 at the top. Level 5 leaders embody a paradoxical mix of 
personal humility and professional will. They are ambitious, to be sure, 
but ambitious first and foremost for the company, not themselves.

Level 5 Leaders set up their successors for even greater success in the
next generation, whereas egocentric Level 4 leaders often set up their
successors for failure.

Level 5 leaders display a compelling modesty, are self-effacing and 
understated. In contrast, two thirds of the comparison companies had
leaders with gargantuan personal egos that contributed to the demise
or continued mediocrity of the company.

Level 5 leaders are fanatically driven, infected with an incurable need to 
produce sustained results. They are resolved to do whatever it takes to 
make the company great, no matter how big or hard the decisions.

Level 5 leaders display a workmanlike diligence--more plow horse than 
show horse.

Level 5 leaders look out the window to attribute success to factors other 
than themselves. When things go poorly, however, they look in the mirror
and blame themselves, taking full responsibility. The comparison CEOs
often did just the opposite--they looked in the mirror to take credit
for success, but out the window to assign blame for disappointing results.

One of the most damaging trends in recent history is the tendency (especially
by boards of directors) to select dazzling, celebrity leaders and to 
de-select potential Level 5 leaders.

I believe that potential Level 5 leaders exist all around us, if we just
know what to look for, and that many people have the potential to 
evolve into Level 5.

Larger-than-life, celebrity leaders who ride in from the outside are
negatively correlated with going from good to great. Ten of eleven
good-to-great CEOs came from inside the company, whereas the comparison
companies tried outside CEOs six times more often.

Level 5 leaders attribute much of their success to good luck, rather
than personal greatness.

We were not looking for Level 5 leadership in our research, or anything
like it, but the data was overwhelming and convincing. It is empirical,
not an ideological, finding.

Chapter 3 First Who...Then What
The good-to-great leaders began the transformation by first getting
the right people on the bus (and the wrong people off the bus) and 
then figured out where to drive it.

The key point of this chapter is not just the idea of getting the right people
on the team. The key point is that "who" questions come before "what"
decisions--before vision, before strategy, before organization structure,
before tactics. First who, then what--as a rigorous discipline, consistently
applied.

The comparison companies frequently followed the "genius with a thousand
helpers" model--a genius leader who sets a vision and then enlists a crew
of highly capable "helper" to make the vision happen. This model fails
when the genius departs.

The good-to-great leaders were rigorous, not ruthless, in people decisions.
They did not rely on layoffs and restructuring as a primary strategy for 
improving performance. The comparison companies used layoffs to a much greater
extent.

We uncovered three practical disciplines for being rigorous in people 
decisions:
  1. When in doubt, don't hire--keep looking. (Corollary: A company should
     limit growth based on its ability to attract enough of the right people.
  2. When you know you need to make a people change, act. (Corollary: First
     be sure you don't simply have someone in the wrong seat.)
  3. Put your best people on your biggest opportunities, not your biggest
     problems. (Corollary: If you sell off your problems, don't sell off
     your best people.)

Good-to-great management teams consist of people who debate vigorously in 
search of the best answers, yet who unify behind decisions, regardless of
parochial interests.

We found no systematic pattern linking executive compensation to the shift
from good to great. The purpose of compensation is not to "motivate" the
right behaviors from the wrong people, but to get and keep the righ people
in the first place.

The old adage "People are your most important asset" is wrong. People are 
not your most important asset. The right people are.

Whether someone is the "right person" has more to do with character traits 
and innate capabilities than with specific knowledge, background, or skills.

Chapter 4 - Confront the Brutal Facts (Yet Never Lose Faith)
All good-to-great companies began the process of finding a path to greatness
by confronting the brutal facts of their current reality.

When you start with an honest and diligent effort to determine the truth of 
your situation, the right decisions often become self-evident. It is impossible
to make good decisions without infusing the entire process with an honest 
confrontation of the brutal facts.

A primary task in taking a company from good to great is to create a culture 
wherein people have a tremendous opportunity to be heard and, ultimately,
for the truth to be heard.

Creating a climate where truth is heard involves four basic practices:
  1. Lead with questions, not answers.
  2. Engage in dialogue and debate, not coercion.
  3. Conduct autopsies, without blame.
  4. Build red flag mechanisms that turn information into information
     that cannot be ignored.

The good-to-great companies faced just as much adversity as the comparison
companies, but responded to that adversity differently. They hit the 
realities of their situation head-on. As a result, they emerged from adversity
even stronger.

A key psychology for leading from good to great is the Stockdale Paradox: 
Retain absolute faith that you can and will prevail in the end, regardless
of the difficulties, AND at the same time confront the most brutal facts
of your current reality, whatever they might be.

Charisma can be as much a liability as an asset, as the strength of your
leadership personality can deter people from bringing you the brutal facts.

Leadership does not begin just with vision. It begins with getting people
to confront the brutal facts and to act on the implications.

Spending time and energy trying to "motivate" people is a waste of effort.
The real question is not, "How do we motivate our people?" If you have the
right people, they will be self-motivated. The key is to not de-motivate
them. One of the primary ways to de-motivate people is to ignore the brutal
facts of reality.

Chapter 5 - The Hedgehog Concept (Simplicity within the Three Circles)
To go from good to great requires a deep understanding of three intersecting
circles translated into simple, crystalline concept (the Hedgehog Concept):
1. What you are deeply PASSIONATE ABOUT
2. What you CAN BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD AT
3. What drives your ECONOMIC ENGINE
Three Circles of the Hedgehog Concept
The key is to understand what your organization can be the best in the world 
at, and equally important what it cannot be the best at--not what it "wants"
to be the best at. The Hedgehog Concept is not a goal, strategy, or intention;
it is an understanding.

If you cannot be the best in the world at your core business, then your core
business cannot form the basis of your Hedgehog Concept.

The "best in the world" understanding is a much more severe standard than a
core competence. You might have a competence but not necessarily have the 
capacity to be truly the best in the world at competence. Conversely, there may
be activities at which you could become the best in the world, but at which 
you have no current competence.

To get insight into the drivers of your economic engine, search for the one 
denominator (profit per x or, in the social sector, cash flow per x) that 
has the single greatest impact.

Good-to-great companies set their goals and strategies based on understanding;
comparison companies set their goals and strategies based on bravado.

Getting the Hedgehog Concept is an iterative process. The Council can be
a useful device.

Unexpected findings
The good-to-great companies are more like hedgehogs--simple, dowdy companies 
that know "one big thing" and stick to it. The comparison companies are more
like foxes--crafty, cunning creatures that know many things yet lack
consistency.

It took four years on average for the good-to-great companies to get a 
Hedgehog Concept.

Strategy per se did not separate the good-to-great companies from the 
comparison companies. Both sets had strategies, and there is no evidence
that the good-to-great companies spend more time on strategic planning than
the comparison companies.

You absolutely do not need to be in a great industry to produce sustained
great results. No matter how bad the industry, every good-to-great company
figured out how to produce truly spectacular economic returns.

Chapter 6 - A Culture of Discipline
Sustained great results depend upon building a culture full of self-disciplined
people who take disciplined action, fanatically consistent with the three
circles.

Bureaucratic cultures arise to compensate for incompetence and lack of 
discipline, which arise from having the wrong people on the bus in the first
place. If you get the right people on the bus, and the wrong people off, you
don't need stultifying bureaucracy.

A culture of discipline involves a duality. On the one hand, it requires people
who adhere to a consistent system; yet, on the other hand, it gives people
freedom and responsibility within the framework of that system.

A culture of discipline is not just about action. It is about getting 
disciplined people who engage in disciplined thought and who then take 
disciplined action.

The good-to-great companies appear boring and pedestrian looking in from the 
outside, but upon closer inspection, they're full of people who display extreme
diligence and a stunning intensity (they "rinse their cottage cheese").

Do not confuse a culture of discipline with a tyrant who disciplines--they are
very different concepts, one highly functional, the other highly dysfunctional.
Savior CEOs who personally discipline through sheer force of personality 
usually fail to produce sustained results.

The single most important form of discipline for sustained results is fanatical
adherence to the Hedgehog Concept and the willingness to shun opportunities that
fall outside the three circles.

Unexpected Findings
The more an organization has the discipline to stay within its three circles,
with almost religious consistency, the more it will have opportunities for
growth.

The fact that something is a "once-in-a-lifetime opportunity" is irrelevant,
unless it fits within the three circles. A great company will have many
once-in-a-lifetime opportunities.

The purpose of budgeting in a good-to-great company is not to decide how much
each activity gets, but to decide which arenas best fit with the Hedgehog
Concept and should be fully funded and which should not be funded at all.

"Stop doing" lists are more important than "to do" lists.

Chapter 7 - Technology Accelerators
Good-to-great organizations think differently about technology and technological
change than mediocre ones.

Good-to-great organizations avoid technology fads and bandwagons, yet they 
become pioneers in the application of carefully selected technologies.

The key question about any technology is, Does the technology fit directly
with your Hedgehog Concept? If yes, then you need to become a pioneer in the 
application of that technology. If no, then you can settle for parity or 
ignore it entirely.

The good-to-great companies used technology as an accelerator of momentum, not
a creator of it. None of the good-to-great companies began their transformations
with pioneering technology, yet they all became pioneers in the application 
of technology once they grasped how it fill with their three circles and after
they hit breakthrough.

You could have taken the exact same leading-edge technologies pioneered at the 
good-to-great companies and handed them to their direct comparisons for free, 
and the comparisons still would have failed to produce anywhere near the same
results.

How a company reacts to technological change is a good indicator of its inner
drive for greatness versus mediocrity. Great companies respond with 
thoughtfulness and creativity, driven by a compulsion to turn unrealized 
potential into results; mediocre companies react and lurch about, motivated
by fear of being left behind.

Unexpected Findings
The idea that technological change is the principal cause in the decline of 
once-great companies (or the perpetual mediocrity of others) is not supported
by the evidence. Certainly, a company can't remain a laggard and hope to be 
great, but technology by itself is never a primary root cause of either
greatness or decline.

Across eighty-four interviews with good-to-great executives, fully 80 percent
didn't even mention technology as one of the top five factors in the 
transformation. This is true even in companies famous for their pioneering
application of technology, such as Nucor.

"Crawl, walk, run" can be a very effective approach, even during times of 
rapid and radical technological change.

Chapter 8 - The Flywheel and the Doom Loop
Good-to-great transformations often look like dramatic, revolutionary events to
those observing from the outside, but they feel like organic, cumulative 
processes to people on the inside. The confusion of end outcomes (dramatic
results) with process (organic and cumulative) skews our perception or what 
really works over the long haul.

No matter how dramatic the end result, the good-to-great transformation never
happened in one fell swoop. There was no single defining action, no grand
program, no one killer innovation, no solitary lucky break, no miracle moment.

Sustainable transformations follow a predictable pattern of buildup and 
breakthrough. Like pusing on a giant, heavy flywheel, it takes a lot of effort
to get the thing moving at all, but with persistent pushing in a consistent
direction over a long period of time, the flywheel builds momentum, eventually
hitting a point of breakthrough.

The comparison companies followed a different pattern, the doom loop. Rather
than accumulating momentum--turn by turn of the flywheel--they tried to skip
buildup and jump immediately to breakthrough. Then, with disappointing results,
they'd lurch back and forth, failing to maintain a consistent direction.

The comparison companies frequently tried to create a breathrough with large,
misguided acquisitions. The good-to-great companies, in contrast, principally
used large acquisitions after breakthrough, to accelerate momentum in an
already fast-spinning flywheel.

Unexpected Results
Those inside the good-to-great companies were often unaware of the magnitude
of their transformation at the time; only later, in retrospect, did it become
clear. They had no name, tag line, launch event, or program to signify what 
they were doing at the time.

The good-to-great leaders spent essentially no energy trying to "create 
alignment," "motivate the troops," or "manage change." Under the right 
conditions, the problems of commitment, alignment, motivation, and change
largely take care of themselves. Alignment pricipally follows from results
and momentum, not the other way around.

The short-term pressures of Wall Street were not inconsistent with following
this model. The flywheel effect is not in conflict with those pressures. 
Indeed, it is the key to managing them. 
