Rich Dad, Poor Dad
Robert Kiyosaki

Lesson 1: The Rich Don't Work for Money
The poor and the middle class work for money. The rich have money work for them.

Lesson 2: Why Teach Financial Literacy?
It's not how much money you make. It's how much money you keep.

You must know the difference between an asset and a liabiliity and buy assets.

An asset puts money in my pocket. A liability takes money out of my pocket.

When it comes to houses, most people work all their lives paying for a home
they never own. In other words, most people buy a new house every few years,
each time incurring a new 30-year loan to pay off the previous one.

Even though people receive a tax deduction for interest on mortgage payments,
they pay for all their other expenses with after-tax dollars, even after they
pay off their mortgage.

My wife's parents were shocked when the property taxes on their home increased
to $1,000 a month. This was after they had retired, so the increase put a 
strain on their retirement budget, and they felt forced to move.

Houses do not always go up in value. I have friends who owe a million dollars 
for a home that today would sell for far less.

The greatest losses of all are those from missed opportunities. If all your 
money is tied up in your house, you may be forced to work harder because your 
money continues blowing out the expense column, instead of adding to the asset
column--the classic middle-class cash-flow pattern. If a young couple would put
more money into their asset column early on, their later years would be easier.
Their assets would have grown and would be available to help cover expenses.
All too often, a house only serves as a vehicle for incurring a home-equity
loan to pay for mounting expenses.

Problems with buying too much house:
1. Loss of time, during which other assets could have grown in value.
2. Loss of additional capital, which could have been invested instead of paying
for high-maintenance expenses related directly to the home. 
3. Loss of education. Too often, people count their house and savings and 
retirement plan as all they have in their asset column. Because they have no 
money to invest, they simply don't invest. This costs them investment 
experience. Most never become what the investment world calls "a sophisticated
investor." And the best investments are usually first sold to sophisticated
investors, who then turn around and sell them to the people playing it safe.

As an employee:
1. You work for the company.
   Employees make their business owner or the shareholders rich, not themselves.
   Your efforts and success will help provide for the owner's success and
   retirement.
2. You work for the government.
   The government takes its share from your paycheck before you even see it. By
   working harder, you simply increase the amount of taxes taken by the 
   governments. Most people work from January to May just for the government.
3. You work for the bank. 
   After taxes, your next largest expense is usually your mortgage and credit
   card debt.

The rich buy assets.
The poor only have expenses.
The middle class buy liabilities they think are assets.

Chapter 3
Mind your own business
The rich focus on their asset column while everyone else focuses on their 
income statements.

What kind of assets to acquire:
Businesses that do not require my presence:
  I own them, but they are managed or run by other people. If I have to work 
  there, it's not a business. It becomes my job.
Stocks
Bonds
Income-generating real estate
Notes(IOUs)
Royalties from intellectual property such as music, scripts, and patents.
Anything else that has value, produces income or appreciates, and has
  a ready market.

Chapter 4
The History of Taxes and the Power of Corporations
My rich dad just played the game smart, and he did it through corporations--
  the biggest secret of the rich.

If you work for money, you give the power to your employer. If money works for
  you, you keep the power and control it.

Every dollar in my asset column was a great employee, working hard to make more
  employees and buy the boss a new Porsche.

Financial IQ
1. Accounting - ability to read and understand financial statements which allow
   you to identify the strengths and weaknesses of any business.
2. Investing
3. Understanding markets
4. The law - tax advantages, protection from lawsuits.

Business Owners with Corporations
1. Earn
2. Spend
3. Pay Taxes

Employees Who Work for Corporations
1. Earn 
2. Pay Taxes
3. Spend

Chapter 5
The Rich Invent Money
Often in the real world, it's not the smart who get ahead, but the bold.

The single most powerful asset we all have is our mind. If it is trained
well, it can create enormous wealth.

Which one sounds harder to you?
1. Work hard. Pay 50% in taxes. Save what is left. Your savings will earn 5%, 
   which is also taxed.
OR
2. Take the time to develop your financial intelligence. Harness the power of
   your brain and the asset column.

Financial Intelligence
1. Accounting is financial literacy, or the ability to read numbers. This is a
   vital skill if you want to build businesses or investments.
2. Investing is the science of money making money.
3. Understanding markets is the science of supply and demand. Alexander
   Graham Bell gave the market what it wanted. So did Bill Gates. A $75,000
   house offered for $60,000 that cost $20,000 was also the result of seizing
   an opportunity created by the market. Somebody was buying, and someone was
   selling.
4. The law is awareness of accounting, corporate, state, and federal 
   regulations. I recommend playing by the rules.

There are five reasons for using examples
1. To inspire people to learn more.
2. To let people know it is easy if the foundation is strong.
3. To show that anyone can achieve great wealth. 
4. To show that there are millions of ways to achieve your goals.
5. To show that it's not rocket science.

It is not gambling if you know what you are doing. It is gambling if you're 
just throwing money into a deal and praying.

Great opportunities are not seen with your eyes. They are seen with your mind.

1. Find an opportunity that everyone else missed.
2. Raise money.
3. Organize smart people.

Chapter 6
Work to Learn--Don't Work for Money
Learn sales
You want to know a little about a lot

The main management skills needed for success are
1. Management of cash flow
2. Management of systems
3. Management of people

Most important specialized skills
Sales, Communcation, Marketing

Chapter 7 
Overcoming obstacles
The primary difference between a rich person and a poor person is how they
manage fear.

Five reasons financially literate people dont develop outstanding asset column
1. Fear
2. Cynicism
3. Laziness
4. Bad Habits
5. Arrogance

For most people, the reason they don't win financially is because the pain of 
losing money is far greater than the joy of being rich.

Failure inspires winners. Failure defeats losers.

Rich dad believed that the words "I can't afford it" shut down your brain.
"How can I afford it?" opens up possibilities, excitement, and dreams.

If I pay myself first, I get financially stronger, mentally and fiscally.

Chapter Eight
Getting Started
There is gold everywhere. Most people are not trained to see it.
1. Find a reason greater than reality: the power of spirit.
2. Make daily choices: the power of choice - invest first in education
3. Choose friends carefully: the power of association - don't listen to poor
   or frightened people
4. Master a formula and then learn a new one: the power of learning quickly
5. Pay yourself first: the power of self-discipline
   Most important skills necessary to start a business are management of:
   1. Cash flow
   2. People
   3. Personal time
   To successfully pay yourself first, keep the following in mind:
   1. Don't get into large debt positions that you have to pay for. Keep your
      expenses low. Build up assets first. Then buy the big house or nice car.
      Being stuck in the rat race is not intelligent.
   2. When you come up short, let the pressure build and don't dip into your 
      savings or investments. Use the pressure to inspire your financial genius
      to come up with new ways of making more money, and then pay your bills. 
      You will have increased your ability to make more money as well as your
      financial intelligence.
6. Pay your brokers well: the power of good advice.
7. Be an Indian giver: the power of getting something for nothing
   The sophisticated investor's first question is: "How fast do I get my money
   back?"
8. Use assets to buy luxuries: the power of focus.
9. Choose heroes: the power of myth.
10. Teach and you shall receive: the power of giving

Chapter 9
Still want more? Here are some to do's
Stop doing what you're doing. Take a break and assess what's working and what 
  isn't
Look for new ideas.
Find someone who has done what you want to do.
Take classes, read, and attend seminars.
Make lots of offers
Jog, walk, or drive a certain area once a month from 10 minutes.
Shop for bargains in all markets.
Look in the right places.
Look for people who want to buy first. Then look for someone who wants to sell.
Think big.
Learn from history.
Action always beats inaction.
