Smarter, Faster, Better
The Secrets of Being Productive in Life and Business
Charles Duhigg

Motivation
Motivation becomes easier when we transform a chore into a choice. Doing
so gives us a sense of control.

Self-motivation becomes easier when we see our choices as affirmations of
our deeper values and goals.

To Generate Motivation:
Make a choice that puts you in control. If you're replying to emails,
write an initial sentence that expresses an opinion or decision. If
you need to have a hard conversation, decide where it will occur ahead
of time. The specific choice itself matters less in sparking motivation
than the assertion of control.

Figure out how this task is connected to something you care about.
Explain to yourself why this chore will help you get closer to a
meaningful goal. Explain why this matters--and then, you'll find it
easier to start.

Goal Setting
I need a stretch goal, something to spark big ambitions.
AND I need a SMART goal, to help me form a concrete plan.

To Set Goals:
Choose a stretch goal: an ambition that reflects your biggest aspirations.

Then, break that into subgoals and develop SMART objectives.
Specific
Measurable
Achievable
Realistic
Timeline

Focus
We aid our focus by building mental models--telling ourselves stories--
about what we expect to see.

To Stay Focused:
Envision what will happen. What will occur first? What are potential
obstacles? How will you preempt them? Telling yourself a story about
what you expect to occur makes it easier to decide where your focus
should go when your plan encounters real life.

Decision Making
Envision multiple futures, and then force myself to figure out which
ones are most likely--and why.

To Make Better Decisions:
Envision multiple futures. By pushing yourself to imagine various
possibilities--some of which might be contradictory--you're better
equipped to make wise choices.

We can hone our Bayesian instincts by seeking out different experiences,
perspectives, and other people's ideas. By finding information and then
letting ourselves sit with it, options become clearer.

To Make Teams More Effective:
Manage the how, not the who of teams. Psychological safety emerges when
everyone feels like they can speak in roughly equal measure and when
teammates show they are sensitive to how each other feel.

If you are leading a team, think about the message your choices reveal.
Are you encouraging equality in speaking, or rewarding the loudest people?
Are you showing you are listening by repeating what people say and
replying to questions and thoughts? Are you demonstrating sensitivity by
reacting when someone seems upset or flustered? Are you showcasing your
sensitivity, so other people will follow your lead?

To Manage Others Productively:
Lean and agile management techniques tell us employees work smarter and
better when they believe they have more decision-making authority and
when they believe their colleagues are committed to their success.

By pushing decision making to whoever is closest to a problem, managers
take advantage of everyone's expertise and unlock innovation.

A sense of control can fuel motivation, but for that drive to produce
insights and solutions, people need to know their suggestions won't be
ignored and that their mistakes won't be held against them.

To Encourage Motivation:
Creativity often emerges by combining old ideas in new ways--and "innovation
brokers" are key.

To become a broker yourself and encourage brokerage within your organization:
Be sensitive to your own experiences. Paying attention to how things make
you think and feel is how we distinguish cliches from real insights.
Study your own emotional reactions.

Recognize that the stress that emerges amid the creative process isn't a sign
everything is falling apart. Rather, creative desperation is often critical:
Anxiety can be what often pushes us to see old ideas in new ways.

Finally, remember that the relief accompanying a creative breakthrough, while
sweet, can also blind us to alternatives. By forcing ourselves to critique
what we've already done, by making ourselves look at it from different perspectives,
by giving new authority to someone who didn't have it before, we retain clear eyes.

To Absorb Data Better:
When we encounter new information, we should force ourselves to do something
with it. Write yourself a note explaining what you just learned, or figure
out a small way to test an idea, or graph a series of data points onto a piece
of paper, or force yourself to explain an idea to a friend. Every choice we make
in life is an experiment--the trick is getting ourselves to see the data
embedded in those decisions, and then use it somehow so we learn from it.
